# Strategies for Acquiring Social Intelligence

*Speak through your work:* If you are experiencing the pressures of
political maneuvering within the group, do not lose your head and become
consumed with all of the pettiness. By remaining focused and speaking
socially through your work, will both continue to raise your skill level
and stand out among all the others who make a lot of noise but produce
nothing.

*Craft the appropriate persona:* You must see the creation of persona as
a key element in social intelligence, not something evil or demonic. We
all wear masks in the social arena, playing different roles to suit the
different environments we pass through. You are simply becoming more
conscious of the process. Think of it as theater. By creating a persona
that is mysterious, intriguing, and masterful, you are playing to the
public, giving them something compelling and pleasurable to witness. You
are allowing them to project their fantasies onto you, or directing
their attention to other theatrical qualities.

*See yourself as others see you:* Almost all of us have social flaws of
some sort, ranging from the relatively harmless to those that can get us
in trouble. Perhaps it could be that we talk too much, or are too honest
in our criticisms of people, or take offense too easily when other do
not respond positively to our ideas. Be honest with yourself about what
these flaws might be, looking back at conflicts you've had and how your
actions may have caused them.

*Suffer fools gladly:* In dealing with fools you must adopt the
following philosophy: they are simply a part of life, like rocks or
furniture. All of us have foolish sides, moments in which we lose our
heads and think more of our ego or short term goals. It is human nature.
Seeing this foolishness within you, you can then accept it in others.
This will allow you to smile at their antics, to tolerate their presence
as you would a silly child, and to avoid the madness of trying to change
them.

Related:
 - Mastery, by Robert Greene
 - https://www.nateliason.com/notes/mastery-robert-greene

    #socialIntelligence #psychology #human #nature

