# Notes for 2023-11-30

## 14:03

Gathering System Information:

### Linux command
- `uname -a` Operating system version information.
- `cat /proc/cpuinfo` Display system hardware and related info
- `ifconfig` Network interface information
- `route` Display routing table
- `arp -a` Display Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) table
- `netstat -a` Display network connections
- `mount` Display filesystems
- `ps -e` Display running processes

### Windows Git Bash equivalent
- `uname -a` Operating system version information.
- `systeminfo` Display system hardware and related info
- `ifconfig` Network interface information
- `route print` Display routing table
- `arp -a` Display Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) table
- `netstat -a` Display network connections
- `net share` Display filesystems
- `tasklist` Display running processes

## 14:24

To export the entire Windows Registry to a file using Git Bash:

  `regedit //E ${HOSTNAME}_reg.bak`

## 14:26

If needed, the reg command can also be used to export sections of the
registry or individual subkeys. To export the `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE` hive
using Git Bash:

  `reg export HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE $(HOSTNAME)_hklm.bak`



## 14:37

*Finding Files*

The find command has the ability to run a specified command for each
file that is found. To do that, you can use the exec option after
specifying your search criteria. Exec replaces any curly braces ({})
with the pathname of the file that was found. The semicolon terminates
the command expression.

  `find /c -exec attrib '{}' \; | egrep '^.{4}H.*'`

	A   H                C:\Users\Bob\scripts\hist.txt 
	A   HR               C:\Users\Bob\scripts\winlogs.sh 

## 14:42

To identify the largest files in the system, you can combine find with a
few other commands:

  `find / -type f -exec ls -s '{}' \; | sort -n -r | head -5`

## 14:46

### Searching by time

The filesystem can also be searched based on when files were last
accessed or modified. This can be useful when investigating incidents to
identify recent system activity. It can be useful for malware analysis,
to identify files that have been accessed or modified during program
execution.

## 14:51

The number specified with the mtime option is a multiple of 24 hours, so
1 means 24 hours, 2 means 48 hours, etc. A negative number here means
"less than" the number specified, a positive number means "greater
than," and an unsigned number means "exactly."

## 14:53

To search for files modified more than 2 days (48 hours) ago:

  `find /home -mtime +2`

To search for files accessed less than 24 hours ago, use the `-atime`
option:

  `find /home -atime -1`

To search for files in the /home directory accessed less than 24 hours
ago and copy (cp) each file to the current working directory (./):

  `find /home -type f -atime -1 -exex cp '{}' ./ \;`

## 14:59

*Searching by File Type* 

### Magic Numbers

#### JPEG

*Magic Number*: 
- hex: `FF D8 FF DB`
- ASCII: `ÿØÿÛ`

*File offset (bytes)* 
- 0 

#### DOS executables

*Magic Number*: 
- hex: `4D 5A`
- ASCII: `MZ`

*File offset (bytes)* 
- 0 

#### Executables and linkable format

*Magic Number*: 
- hex: `7F 45 4C 46`
- ASCII: `.ELF`

*File offset (bytes)* 
- 0 

#### Zip file

*Magic Number*: 
- hex: `50 4B 03 04`
- ASCII: `PK..`

*File offset (bytes)* 
- 0 


## 15:47

Be cautious if using the file command on an untrusted system. The file
command uses the magic pattern file located at `/usr/share/misc/`. A
malicious user could modify this file such that certain file types would
not be identified. A better option is to mount the suspect drive to a
known good system and search from there.
