# Notes for 2023-04-28

## 11:23

### DevOps Terraform

Mit eigenen AWS Accounts:
 - Dev
 - Staging
 - Prod 



## 11:26

CI/CD Pipelines:

 - Test on Merge Requests
 - Build and Push Docker image
 
 - Deploy to AWS (test, staging, prod)
 - Automatic formatting/linting when committing locally
    - Automatically fixable lint issues should be fixed when
      committing
    - Lint issues should not prevent committing (e.g. no
      errors, only warnings)
 - Automatic testing and stricter linting for all MRs
    - Failed tests or remaining lint errors prevent the MR from
      being merged.
 Changing the main branch triggers
  - Bumping the product version
    How to control the version (major, minor, patch) when
    changing the version (and adding a git tag) is done by the
    pipeline?
  - Or should it be the other way around?
    - Bumping the version via MR, which triggers the remaining
      steps.
    - Changes on the main branch without changing the version would
      use the existing version and a timestamp or commit hash as
      build version.
  - Build and publish the artifact (e.g. docker image or compiled
    library)
  - Deploy changes and test in the test environment.
  - Deploy the changes in the staging and production
    environment on manual trigger.




## 14:47

 - vim +gpg is fine, and if you use gpg with a proper public/private
   key (as opposed to merely gpg -c, which is symmetric
   encryption), there is no danger of mistyping a password on write.

 - You first generate a gpg key for yourself (if you don't already
   have one). Be sure to give it a strong enough passphrase for
   your threat model.

 - Then put this in your `.vimrc`, changing the let statement in the
   2nd line to suit your gpg key id:

    if empty($GPG_KEYID)
      let $GPG_KEYID = 'your@gpgkey.com'
    endif

    augroup gpgedit
      au!
      " Use gpg2 to open a .gpg file
      " adapted from http://lwn.net/Aritcles/226514/
      au BufReadPre,FileReadPre *.gpg       set nobackup
      au BufReadPre,FileReadPre *.gpg       set noswapfile
      au BufReadPre,FileReadPre *.gpg       set noundofile
      au BufReadPre,FileReadPre *.gpg       set nowritebackup
      au BufReadPre,FileReadPre *.gpg       set viminfo=
      au BufReadPre,FileReadPre *.gpg       set sh=/bin/bash
      au BufReadPost            *.gpg       set :%!gpg2 -q -d
      au BufReadPost            *.gpg       set | redraw
      au BufWritePre            *.gpg       set :%!gpg2 -q -e
      --no-encrypt-to --no-default-recipient -r $GPG_KEYID -a
      au BufWritePost           *.gpg       set u 
      au VimLeave               *.gpg       set :!clear
    augroup END
     
 - Now you run vim foo.gpg and it will open an empty file. Add some
   text and save it, and then cat foo.gpg and you will see it's
   gpg encrypted.

 - When you open the file gpg-agent should pop up asking for the
   passphrase. Type it in and the file should open.

 - You may need all the autocommands in there -- they are meant to
   ensure no trace of the encrypted file is accidentally left on
   disk.

 - ... but that means I need to have my private/secret key stored on
   all machines where I want to open that file, right?

    - Yes! If you don't "own" the machines make one just for these
      files that you're sharing, not your real GPG key.

      It will still be protected by a passphrase, which you will
      have to type in, so it's not as if the other machines have
      unfettered access to the data.

      "root" user on any of those machine can probably find ways
      to grab your data regardless of how you do it, of course,
      at least while you're editing a file.

  - ERROR: gpg: decryption failed: No secret key
    - first, assuming you have gpg 2.2 or above (and that's
      already pretty old), there's no need to start gpg-agent
      yourself; let gpg take care of it.

    - to the decryption fail issue... in some cases (and I'm not
      quite sure exactly what combination of things cause
      this), you may have to 

      - export GPG_TTY=`tty`
      then try vim foo.gpg again.
      
      I think it's something to do with not finding the
      proper "pinetry" program (a system could have several).

  - `man gpg-agent` mentions 4 config entries. Create
    `~/.gnupg/gpg-agent.conf` if it is not already present and
    add those options

## 22:30

To install packages (Rust) with cargo, Browse Lib.rs to find the
appropriate command.

## 22:37

Installing neovide with cargo fixed the problem on arch. You should not
use the pacman or yay package.
