# Notes for 2023-07-06

## 11:21

Introduction Terragrunt is a thin wrapper around Terraform that provides
additional tools for keeping configurations DRY. DRY is a popular
software development practice that stands for "Don't Repeat Yourself,"
which means don't reuse the same software pattern, avoiding redundancy.
Terragrunt enables developers to use DRY principles when configuring
remote state. For information on how to install Terragrunt, check out
the install documentation.

In this lab step, you will use Terragrunt to deploy a Terraform
configuration in separate environments while keeping the remote state
configuration DRY.

2.  On the left-hand side, review the folder hierarchy and files:

Notice there is a terragrunt.hcl file at the root of the directory. This
file will contain the remote state configuration settings which will be
used in each subfolder. The remote state configurations will only be
specified once at the root level and used throughout the sub folders,
staying true to DRY principles.

3.  Click on the terragrunt.hcl in the root parent directory:

On the right-hand side the contents of terragrunt.hcl are displayed:

# Remote backend settings for all child directories

remote_state { backend = "s3" config = { bucket =
"ca-tf-state--${get_aws_account_id()}"  key = "${path_relative_to_include()}/terraform.tfstate"
region = "us-west-2" encrypt = true dynamodb_table =
"terraform-state-lock" } } The remote_state block contains the remote
state configuration settings for storing the Terraform state in an S3
bucket with a DynamoDB table for locking. The bucket argument value
contains \${get_aws_account_id()} which is a Terragrunt built-in
function. This allows a unique identifier to be created based off the
AWS account. The S3 bucket name always needs to be publicly unique, so
this function assists to automatically ensure it is. The value of the
key argument contains \${path_relative_to_include()} which is another
Terragrunt built-in function. This function includes the relative folder
path where the Terraform configuration is located, which you will see
later. The \${path_relative_to_include()} function allows the key path
to be automated for each directory.

4.  Click on the terragrunt.hcl file in the Prod directory:

On the right-hand side, the contents of terragrunt.hcl are displayed:

# Include all settings from the root terragrunt.hcl file

include { path = find_in_parent_folders() } The include block tells
Terragrunt to use the configuration from the directory specified in the
path argument. In this case, the path argument contains the value of
another Terragrunt built-in function, find_in_parent_folders(). This
function tells Terragrunt to use the terragrunt.hcl file in the parent
folder. So Terragrunt will use the remote state configuration settings
from the terragrunt.hcl in the parent folder as if it were copied and
pasted into the current directory in the Prod folder.

Each main.tf file in the child folders contains an empty S3 backend
block:

This makes the remote state configuration much easier to maintain since
all the configuration settings are maintained in a single file at the
root of the directory.

5.  Click on the Terminal menu and click New Terminal:

A terminal window will appear at the bottom.

6.  Inside the terminal, input the following command to initialize the
    folder:

Terragrunt realizes that the S3 backend infrastructure does not exist.
It then asks if you would like to create them.

7.  Input y to create the backend configuration resources.

Terragrunt will create the S3 bucket and DynamoDB table in the current
AWS account and configure them using best practices. Once the S3 backend
has been created the following message will appear since there is no
Terraform configuration in the current directory:

8.  Inside the terminal, input the following command to apply the
    Terraform configuration in all child folders with a single command:

terragrunt apply-all

Terragrunt will only apply the Terraform configurations in child folders
that contain a terragrunt.hcl file.

9.  Input y to apply the configuration in each folder:

A terraform init and terraform apply are executed against all child
folders. Notice the backend-config parameter is used and the key path
contains the folder name of each environment:

This allows for each environment to have its own unique key path for the
backend configuration. The resources are deployed successfully:alt

An application has been deployed in three separate environments with
just a single command and a single remote state configuration.

10. Input the following command to destroy all resources that have been
    provisioned in each folder:

terragrunt destroy-all

Notice: The terragrunt destroy-all command should be used with caution.
It should not be used against production environments and is more suited
to ephemeral test or QA environments.

11. Input y to confirm the destruction of each resource:

The resources in each environment are destroyed with a single command.
For more information on the use cases and functionality of Terragrunt,
check out the Terragrunt documentation.

Summary In this lab step, you automatically created the S3 and DynamoDB
backend resources with Terragrunt and configured the remote state in
each environment with DRY principles.

## 12:13

Introduction With large Terraform projects, it is recommended to
separate the Terraform state between infrastructure components that are
changed daily and those rarely modified. For example, the VPC and subnet
will be modified less frequently than an EC2 instance that may be
rebuilt and redeployed multiple times a day. Terragrunt helps split up
infrastructure components in separate states using dependency blocks to
order infrastructure components and pass data between components.

In this lab step, you will deploy an environment using Terragrunt to
separate the Terraform state between critical components.

2.  On the left-hand side, review the folder hierarchy and files:

The Terraform project is split into a directory for each component the
VPC, Network, and EC2. The terraform configuration for each component
contains variables for inputs and outputs to pass data between each
component. For example, the EC2 instance will need information from the
network and vpc folder.

Notice there is a terragrunt.hcl file at the root of the directory. This
file will contain the provider and remote state configuration settings
which will be used in each subfolder. to make the Terraform
configurations DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself).

3.  Left-click on the terragrunt.hcl in the root parent directory:

On the right-hand side, the contents of terragrunt.hcl are displayed.
Notice the generate block:

# Generate provider configuration for all child directories

generate "provider" { path = "provider.tf" if_exists = "overwrite"
contents = \<\<EOF terraform { required_providers { aws = { source =
"hashicorp/aws" version = "3.7" } } backend "s3" {} }

provider "aws" { region = "us-west-2" } EOF } The generate block allows
Terraform resource blocks to be written on the fly when using
Terragrunt. This strategy can be used to customize the provider and
terraform blocks to use the same configuration settings in all
subfolders.

4.  Left-click on the terragrunt.hcl file in the network directory:

On the right-hand side, the contents of terragrunt.hcl are displayed:

# Define dependencies on other modules

dependency "vpc" { config_path = "../vpc" }

# Pass data in from a declared dependency

inputs = { vpc_id = dependency.vpc.outputs.vpc_id }

# Include all settings from the root terragrunt.hcl file

include { path = find_in_parent_folders() } The dependency block
declares that the network folder configuration depends on the output
from the Terraform configuration in the vpc folder. Terragrunt will
recognize this and wait to apply this configuration until the
configuration in the vpc folder has completed successfully during a
terragrunt apply-all.

The inputs block contains the input that is passed into the Terraform
configuration in the form of a TF_VAR_variablename environment variable,
which is one of the ways to input variables into Terraform
configurations. The output from the vpc folder is passed in by declaring
the dependency followed by the dependency label name and output value:
dependency.vpc.outputs.vpc_id. The data from the vpc_id argument is
passed into the network folder configuration as a variable:

Lastly, the include block tells Terragrunt to include the terragrunt.hcl
configuration settings from the parent directory as well, which includes
the settings for the remote state and provider.

5.  Left-click on the terragrunt.hcl file in the ec2 directory:

On the right-hand side, the contents of terragrunt.hcl are displayed:

# Define dependencies on other modules with multiple dependency blocks

dependency "vpc" { config_path = "../vpc" }

dependency "network" { config_path = "../network" }

# Pass data in from declared dependencies

inputs = { vpc_sg = dependency.vpc.outputs.vpc_sg subnet_id =
dependency.network.outputs.subnet_id }

# Include all settings from the root terragrunt.hcl file

include { path = find_in_parent_folders() } The difference between the
ec2 and network Terragrunt configuration is that the ec2 Terraform
configuration has two dependencies. The EC2 needs the VPC security group
ID and the Subnet ID to deploy. In order to specify multiple
dependencies within the Terragrunt configuration, multiple dependency
blocks are created. The data is then passed into the ec2 folder
Terraform configuration as variables:

6.  Left-click on the Terminal menu and click New Terminal:

A terminal window will appear at the bottom.

7.  Inside the terminal, input the following command to apply the
    Terraform configuration in all child folders with a single command:

terragrunt apply-all

Each module is listed with their dependencies:

8.  Input y to apply the configuration in each folder:

Notice the provider.tf file is automatically is generated in each folder
where Terragrunt is executed:

Terragrunt detects the S3 bucket doesn't exist and prompts to create it:

9.  Input y to have Terragrunt create the S3 backend resources: alt

The S3 backend components are created and configured to best practices.
Then, a terraform apply is ran against the VPC directory since it has no
dependencies. Once the resources are deployed, a terraform output is
executed to obtain the outputs from the state of the VPC:

The outputs from VPC are formatted in JSON and then automatically passed
into the network configuration during terraform apply:

After the network configuration is successfully deployed, the EC2
instance configuration is deployed:

The entire application infrastructure is deployed with separate states
in just a single command. Keep in mind the terragrunt apply-all command
should be used in the initial deployment of an environment. If you were
to modify one infrastructure component, for example, the ec2
configuration, you would just run terragrunt apply in the ec2 directory
to apply the change.

Summary In this lab step, you deployed the infrastructure for an
application environment with separate states using Terragrunt to pass
data between each module folder.

## 12:25

ntroduction Copy/pasting Terraform code between environments creates
more opportunities for error as well as unnecessary time. With
Terragrunt and DRY principles, a new approach can be taken to achieve
very little infrastructure code, where developers can focus on modifying
just the properties that matter.

In this lab step, you will use Terragrunt to deploy a new environment by
copying a DRY Terraform configuration and updating just the components
that need to be changed.

2.  On the left-hand side, review the folder hierarchy and files:

The Terraform project is split into a directory for each component the
VPC, Network, and EC2. However, the Terraform configuration for each
component contains a single terragrunt.hcl file that contains all the
values for customizing that component. By using Terragrunt, you can see
the configuration for each environment is slimmed down.

Notice there is an environment_vars.yaml file at the root of the
directory. This file contains the important configuration data for
customizing the environment which will be used in each subfolder to make
the Terraform configurations DRY ( Don't Repeat Yourself).

3.  Left-click on the terragrunt.hcl in the root parent directory:

On the right-hand side the contents of terragrunt.hcl are displayed. The
configuration is similar to the one in the hands-on lab "Passing Outputs
Between Terraform Modules with Terragrunt", but locals block at the
bottom is new:

# Collect values from environment_vars.yaml and set as local variables

locals { env_vars = yamldecode(file("environment_vars.yaml"))

} The locals block allows Terragrunt to declare local values that can be
used within the terragrunt.hcl file. The yamldecode and file functions
are used to collect the values from the environment_vars.yaml file to
use as local values:

4.  Left-click on the terragrunt.hcl file in the network directory:

On the right-hand side, the contents of terragrunt.hcl are displayed:

# Use remote module for configuration

terraform { source =
"git::github.com/cloudacademy/terraform-aws-calabmodules.git//network?ref=v0.0.1"
}

# Pass data into remote module with inputs

inputs = { cidr_block = local.env_vars.subnet_cidr availability_zone =
local.env_vars.availability_zone vpc_id = dependency.vpc.outputs.vpc_id
tags = { Environment = local.env_vars.environment } }

# Define dependencies on other modules

dependency "vpc" { config_path = "../vpc" }

# Collect values from parent environment_vars.yaml file and set as local variables

locals { env_vars =
yamldecode(file(find_in_parent_folders("environment_vars.yaml"))) }

# Include all settings from the root terragrunt.hcl file

include { path = find_in_parent_folders() } The terraform block declares
the module source to use. In this example, the source of the module is
in a GitHub repository tagged with version 0.0.1. This is a great
strategy as the module can then be versioned and promoted throughout
different environments. This prevents having to maintain main.tf or
variable.tf files within the configuration directory and gives the DRY
effect to the infrastructure code. Note: These modules are made for lab
purposes only and are not meant to be used in a production environment.

The inputs block contains the values for the remote module referenced in
the terraform block. Notice the local and dependency values are used as
inputs.

The locals block configures the local values from the
environment_vars.yaml file in the parent folder. This allows the crucial
environment values to be specified in one place and used in multiple
Terragrunt configurations.

5.  Left-click on the Terminal menu and click New Terminal:

A terminal window will appear at the bottom.

6.  Use cp to copy the production environment code into another folder:

cp -p -a ./production/. ./development/

Ignore the warning about not being able to preserve ownership:

Now there's a development folder with the same application environment
code as the production environment:

alt

7.  Use sed to swap out the environment values:

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```

    sed -i 's/Production/Development/g' ./development/environment_vars.yaml \
    && sed -i 's+10.0.0.0/16+10.1.0.0/16+g' ./development/environment_vars.yaml \
    && sed -i 's+10.0.0.0/24+10.1.0.0/24+g' ./development/environment_vars.yaml

The environment_vars.yaml contains the important values for configuring
the environment. They have been changed to reflect a new development
environment with different networking configurations:

8.  Inside the terminal, change the directory to the development folder:

cd development

9.  Input the following command to apply the Terraform configuration in
    all child folders with a single command:

terragrunt apply-all

10. Input y to apply the configuration in each folder.

Each remote module is downloaded from the GitHub repository to the local
directory in the .terragrunt-cache folder:

Terragrunt detects that the S3 backend resources don't exist and prompts
to create them:

11. Input y to have Terragrunt create the S3 backend resources:

The S3 backend components are created and configured to best practices.
The entire development environment is deployed with separate states in
just a single command:

Using Terragrunt with remotely sourced modules and locals allows
developers to deploy a new version of the environment by modifying a
single file. A traditional Terraform configuration environment not using
Terragrunt would require each a .tfvars file to be modified for each
configuration directory.

Summary In this lab step, you used Terragrunt to quickly spin up a
development environment from an existing production environment by
copying the Terragrunt configuration and modifying a single file.

## 12:39

Introduction
One common misconception is that because Terraform is declarative, writing tests is a waste of time. Terraform will produce an error message if the resource doesn't deploy, so why write a test for it?  Tests should be meaningful. Don't write tests to validate a Terraform resource setting. This will quickly become difficult to maintain and provides very little value. Instead, write tests to validate conditional logic, variable outcomes, and infrastructure functionality.

In this lab step, you will write a test for a Terraform module using Terratest.

2. On the left-hand side, review the folder hierarchy and files:

This folder hierarchy is typically seen for modules in the Terraform community and you will see this in many public Terraform modules. The root folder contains the Terraform configuration for the module. The examples folder contains an example of how to deploy the module. This folder is used as documentation for the module and is also used by the tests to test the examples. The test folder contains the tests written in GO using the Terratest library, a popular library for testing Terraform. 

This is a simple Terraform module that creates a Security Group and EC2 Instance to deploy a web site. You will write a meaningful test to deploy the module and perform an HTTP request to validate the website is deployed. Terratest validates the Terraform code by deploying live infrastructure into AWS and performing tasks to validate the infrastructure is working. Because AWS and Terraform are tightly coupled, testing the module by deploying it gives the most effective way to test.

3. Right-click on the test folder and click New File:

4. Name the file webserver_test.go and click OK:

In Golang, test files always end with _test.go. GO will automatically see this file as a test file and execute it when running the tests in a later step.

 

5. Copy and paste the following code into the webserver_test.go file:

package test

import (
	"fmt"
	"testing"
	"time"

	http_helper "github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/modules/http-helper"

	"github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/modules/terraform"
)
Starting at the top package test declares that the name of the package is test. This is for describing the purpose of the package. Next is the import declaration. The import declaration contains libraries or packages used in the Golang code. Packages native to GO like fmt can be referenced as well as packages from source control repositories like GitHub. Notice some of the libraries from Terratest are referenced and will be used to deploy the Terraform code and perform an HTTP test to validate the web site. 

 

6. Add the following snippet of code to webserver_test.go:

func TestTerraformWebserverExample(t *testing.T) {


}
A testing function is declared called TestTerraformWebserverExample. Testing functions in GO need to start with the word Test with a capital T followed by a capitalized letter after Test. This testing function will contain the code for the test.

 

7. Add the following lines of code to the TestTerraformWebserverExample function:

// The values to pass into the Terraform CLI
terraformOptions := terraform.WithDefaultRetryableErrors(t, &terraform.Options{
		
    // The path to where the example Terraform code is located
    TerraformDir: "../examples/webserver",

	// Variables to pass to the Terraform code using -var options
	Vars: map[string]interface{}{
			"region":    "us-west-2",
			"servername": "testwebserver",
		},
})
The variable terraformOptions is declared. In GO you can declare variables using :=. Inside the variable declaration, the github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/modules/terraform library is being used to pass values into Terraform. &terraform.Options is an object in Golang called a struct. The struct contains key-value pairs that make up a collection of settings that can be then passed into the Terraform CLI. This includes the directory of the Terraform example code to run for the test as well as the variables to input while performing a terraform apply.

The TestTerraformWebserverExample function should look like the following:

func TestTerraformWebserverExample(t *testing.T) {


	// The values to pass into the Terraform CLI
	terraformOptions := terraform.WithDefaultRetryableErrors(t, &terraform.Options{
		
        // The path to where the example Terraform code is located
		TerraformDir: "../examples/webserver",

		// Variables to pass to the Terraform code using -var options
		Vars: map[string]interface{}{
			"region":    "us-west-2",
			"servername": "testwebserver",
		},
	})


	
}
 

8. Add the following lines of code to the TestTerraformWebserverExample function:

// Run a Terraform init and apply with the Terraform options
terraform.InitAndApply(t, terraformOptions)

// Run a Terraform Destroy at the end of the test
defer terraform.Destroy(t, terraformOptions)
The Terratest library is used again by referencing the terraform package and using the Destroy and InitAndApply functions:

This will perform a terraform init and terraform apply using the settings declared in the terraformOptions variable.  The defer before terraform.Destroy means that GO will run the function at the end and will always run it even if the test were to error out. 

The current testing function will deploy the Terraform code in the examples folder and pass in variables using a terraform apply. Then a terraform destroy will execute to remove the test infrastructure. In the next step, a test will be added to perform an HTTP request to validate the web server is actually working after the terraform apply.

The TestTerraformWebserverExample function should look like the following:

func TestTerraformWebserverExample(t *testing.T) {


	// The values to pass into the Terraform CLI
	terraformOptions := terraform.WithDefaultRetryableErrors(t, &terraform.Options{
		
        // The path to where the example Terraform code is located
		TerraformDir: "../examples/webserver",

		// Variables to pass to the Terraform code using -var options
		Vars: map[string]interface{}{
			"region":    "us-west-2",
			"servername": "testwebserver",
		},
	})


	// Run a Terraform init and apply with the Terraform options
	terraform.InitAndApply(t, terraformOptions)

	// Run a Terraform Destroy at the end of the test
	defer terraform.Destroy(t, terraformOptions)
	
}
 

9. Add the following lines of code to the TestTerraformWebserverExample function:

// Retrieve the public IP address using Terraform Show
publicIp := terraform.Output(t, terraformOptions, "public_ip")

// Perform an HTTP request to the Public IP to validate status 200 and the body contains the following string
url := fmt.Sprintf("http://%s:8080", publicIp)
http_helper.HttpGetWithRetry(t, url, nil, 200, "Cloud Academy Labs Are Great!", 30, 5*time.Second)
The terraform.Output function is used to retrieve the output after terraform apply. The public IP address of the web server is retrieved and then saved to the publicIP variable:

Next, the http_helper package is used to perform an HTTP request to the web server's public IP address. The HttpGetWithRetry function repeatedly performs an HTTP GET request against the given URL until a 200 status code is retrieved and a "Cloud Academy Labs Are Great!" string is returned from the body.  This test retries the HTTP request on a loop 30 times every 5 seconds and errors out after reaching 30 tries. The retry loop allows the test to deal with the deployment time inconsistencies with Terraform and cloud provider:

The TestTerraformWebserverExample function should look like the following:

func TestTerraformWebserverExample(t *testing.T) {


	// The values to pass into the Terraform CLI
	terraformOptions := terraform.WithDefaultRetryableErrors(t, &terraform.Options{
		
        // The path to where the example Terraform code is located
		TerraformDir: "../examples/webserver",

		// Variables to pass to the Terraform code using -var options
		Vars: map[string]interface{}{
			"region":    "us-west-2",
			"servername": "testwebserver",
		},
	})


	// Run a Terraform init and apply with the Terraform options
	terraform.InitAndApply(t, terraformOptions)

	// Run a Terraform Destroy at the end of the test
	defer terraform.Destroy(t, terraformOptions)

	// Retrieve the public IP address using Terraform Show
	publicIp := terraform.Output(t, terraformOptions, "public_ip")

	// Perform an HTTP request to the Public IP to validate status 200 and the body contains the following string
	url := fmt.Sprintf("http://%s:8080", publicIp)
	http_helper.HttpGetWithRetry(t, url, nil, 200, "Cloud Academy Labs Are Great!", 30, 5*time.Second)
}
 

10. Validate the entire webserver_test.go file looks like the following:

package test

import (
	"fmt"
	"testing"
	"time"

	http_helper "github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/modules/http-helper"

	"github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/modules/terraform"
)

func TestTerraformWebserverExample(t *testing.T) {


	// The values to pass into the Terraform CLI
	terraformOptions := terraform.WithDefaultRetryableErrors(t, &terraform.Options{
		
        // The path to where the example Terraform code is located
		TerraformDir: "../examples/webserver",

		// Variables to pass to the Terraform code using -var options
		Vars: map[string]interface{}{
			"region":    "us-west-2",
			"servername": "testwebserver",
		},
	})


	// Run a Terraform init and apply with the Terraform options
	terraform.InitAndApply(t, terraformOptions)

	// Run a Terraform Destroy at the end of the test
	defer terraform.Destroy(t, terraformOptions)

	// Retrieve the public IP address using Terraform Show
	publicIp := terraform.Output(t, terraformOptions, "public_ip")

	// Perform an HTTP request to the Public IP to validate status 200 and the body contains the following string
	url := fmt.Sprintf("http://%s:8080", publicIp)
	http_helper.HttpGetWithRetry(t, url, nil, 200, "Cloud Academy Labs Are Great!", 30, 5*time.Second)
}

11.  Click on the Terminal menu and click New Terminal:

A terminal window will appear at the bottom.

12. Change the directory to the test folder where the test file is located:

cd test
 

13. Input go get to download the dependencies for the test:

go get -t -v

The dependencies include the packages that were specified during the import declaration. This process may take a minute. 

 

14. Run go test to start the test:

go test -v webserver_test.go

Terraform will start to execute the example code:


The values from terraformOptions are passed into the Terraform CLI:


The web server infrastructure is deployed successfully:


The HTTP test runs on a retry loop to catch the web server once it's fully up and running:


Once the web server is running, the HTTP request is made to validate that  a status 200 is returned along with the "Cloud Academy Labs Are Great!" string  in the body:


A terraform destroy is executed to clean up the test infrastructure:


Once the destroy is complete, the test results are displayed:


This test can now be executed every time after modifying the Terraform module to confirm that it works as expected quickly. An even better approach would be to store the module code in a Git repository and add this test to a CI pipeline, so changes will automatically be validated before merging. Be sure to check out the Terratest documentation for more info on how to effectively test your Terraform modules.

Note: Terratest should be used in a separate AWS account from production. It's recommended to have an account just for testing Terraform code. This way automated cleanup can be run against the account to ensure resources are not left behind.

 
Summary
In this lab step, you used Terratest to write a test in GO for validating a Terraform module. 

- https://terratest.gruntwork.io/docs/
