# Notes for 2023-07-12

## 13:37

How to downgrade packages in manjaro:
- https://wiki.manjaro.org/index.php/Downgrading_packages 

## 15:11

Introduction
Static code analysis, or simply static analysis, tools analyze code without actually executing it. Static analysis tools can perform a variety of checks to improve the quality of the code including the following:

Adhering to code style conventions. For example, indentation and variable name conventions.
Identifying resource leaks
Incorrect usage of Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)
Security vulnerabilities
Compilers often perform static analysis. However, dedicated static analysis tools usually provide more analysis capabilities than a compiler. Different tools work with different languages and the checks that a tool performs also depends on the language. 

To illustrate using static analysis, this Lab includes source code for a Node.js web application that is continuously deployed using a deployment pipeline in AWS CodePipeline. The deployment pipeline has three stages:

Source: CodePipeline watches for source code changes in the Amazon S3 bucket that is configured. CodePipeline can also be configured to watch for changes in AWS CodeCommit or GitHub Git repositories.
Build: AWS CodeBuild builds the application.
Deploy: AWS CodeDeploy deploys the application to an EC2 instance.
In this Lab Step, you will get a basic understanding of the application before including static analysis in the continuous deployment pipeline of the application. You will see how integrating static analysis into the deployment pipeline can prevent vulnerabilities from being deployed into production. The process for integrating static analysis into a deployment pipeline would be similar for projects written in languages other than JavaScript.

 

Instructions
1. In the Cloud9 terminal tab, enter the following command to clone the sample application for the Lab:

Copy code
git clone https://github.com/cloudacademy/sca-lab.git app
alt

The source code is retrieved using the Git version control system from a CloudAcademy GitHub repository.

 

2. Change into the application's root directory:

Copy code
cd app
The Cloud9 terminal prompt adds the branch name to the prompt when you are inside a directory version controlled by Git:

alt

The branch is master in the image above.

 

3. In the left Environment tab, double-click on the app folder to expand its contents:

alt

The code is organized in the following way:

client/: Client-side JavaScript application code that runs in clients' browsers
scripts/: AWS CodeDeploy deployment scripts that run at different stages of deployment
server/: Node.js JavaScript code used to run the application's backend web server
views/: View templates used to render the client-side web page
appspec.yml: AWS CodeDeploy deployment specification for the application
buildspec.yml: AWS CodeBuild build specification for the project
package.json: Node.js dependency and script information
package.sh: Script to create source package to upload to Amazon S3 to start the CodePipeline deployment process
The relevant details of certain files will be covered as necessary, but a detailed inspection of the code is not required for the sake of the Lab.

 

4. Double-click the package.json file to open it and look at the scripts section:

alt

The build script runs the individual server (build-server) and client (build-client) build scripts. The JavaScript application code is written to the ECMAScript 2015/ECMAScript 6 (ES6) standard of JavaScript that is not fully supported by many versions of web browsers or Node.js. The build scripts compile the ES6 JavaScript into a format that is broadly supported. babel is the tool that performs the compilation. The client build script also bundles all the JavaScript files into a single file for delivery to the clients using webpack. Babel is used internally inside of webpack and is configured in the webpack.config.js file.

 

5. Open the buildspec.yml file to see the steps AWS CodeBuild performs to build the application:

alt

Focus in on the phases section:

The install phase runs Node Package Manager (npm) to install the production dependencies and then the development dependencies. The production dependencies are cached separately from the development dependencies to make deploying faster.
The build phase runs the client and server build scripts you saw in the package.json file.
The artifacts section includes all of the files required to deploy a production version of the application. The artifacts are what CodeDeploy takes as input to deploy the application. 

 

Summary
In this Lab Step, you briefly inspected the source code of the sample application that is used for this Lab. You focused on the code relevant to building the application. You will later modify the build code to incorporate static analysis into the build process and, therefore, into the continuous deployment pipeline.

## 15:13

Introduction
In this Lab Step, you will try out the deployed application. You will observe its normal behavior, and then craft an input that will cause the application to stop working. The specially-crafted input is an example of an injection attack. Injection attacks top the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top 10 list of application security vulnerabilities. You will later see how static analysis tools can help prevent these types of attacks.

 

Instructions
1. Confirm that the application has successfully deployed as part of the Lab startup procedure:

Copy code
aws deploy get-deployment \
  --deployment-id=$(aws deploy list-deployments --output=text --query=deployments) \
  --query="deploymentInfo.status"
alt

If the status is InProgress, reissue the command after a minute to check that it reached Succeeded.

 

2. In the Cloud9 terminal tab, enter the following AWS CLI command to get the IP address of the EC2 instance where the application is being continuously deployed:

Copy code
aws ec2 describe-instances --filters "Name=tag:Type,Values=Deployment" --query "Reservations[0].Instances[0].PublicIpAddress"
The CodeDeploy deployment group is configured to deploy to instances with a Type tag with a value of Deployment. That is used to filter only the deployment instance and not the Cloud9 instance. The query outputs only the public IP address of the instance.

 

3. Click on the IP address and select Open from the menu to open the application in a new browser tab:

alt

The frontend of the application appears:

alt

 

4. Enter a Name into the text box and press enter to get a message from the backend server:

alt

The backend generates a message saying Hi to the name you entered.

 

5. Enter in a few more names and get messages for each to verify the application is functioning correctly.

 

6. Enter the following input and get a message for it:

Copy code
"; while(1); "
Do you notice a different behavior? This time no new message is displayed. If you try to enter new names no other messages are displayed either. A check of the deployment instance's CPU Utilization in Amazon CloudWatch would show that the CPU had spiked to 100% utilized since issuing the specially-crafted input as in the following image:

alt

Note: You can find the EC2 instance metrics under the Monitoring section of the target EC2.

 

7. Return to the Cloud9 IDE and open the app > server > controllers > message.js file to understand what is going on:

alt

The message controller has a single function named generateMessage. It is what eventually gets called when you click the frontend Get Message button. The request body (req.body) contains the text you enter in the Name field on the frontend. The code does some checks to make sure the request body is not empty on lines 8-11. If the body is not empty, it is assigned to the name variable on line 13 and the response message is sent on line 14. Can you see the issue? Cloud9 has highlighted the troublesome line of code with a warning sign based on its own static analysis.

 

8. Mouse over the warning sign by line 13 to see the warning message:

alt

The relevant message is eval can be harmful. The eval function will interpret any string that it receives and executes it as code. When you send a request containing a name like student, the eval interprets the code as:

alt

where ${req.body} is substituted with the request body. But when you pass in a name like "; while(1) ;", the eval interprets the code as:

alt

The name is assigned an empty string and then the while (1); statement is executed. This while loop never terminates, so the CPU is stuck in an infinite loop and never sends a response. The Node.js process is blocked by the loop so subsequent requests cannot be processed either. This is why eval has been flagged as potentially harmful by Cloud9 and should never be used in production. Static analysis integrated into an IDE is a good first line of defense but can't always be depended upon for less obvious vulnerabilities. You will integrate popular JavaScript static analysis tools into the build process in the next Lab Step.

The information message about Missing semicolon is more of a style preference. JavaScript can automatically insert semicolons in most situations so the code can be kept cleaner. Static analysis tools can display errors for situations where missing semicolons are potentially creating unintended results. Most static analysis tools will allow you to configure your preference for including or excluding semicolons so you can enforce a consistent style across your code.

 

Summary
In this Lab Step, you used the application and demonstrated how to exploit its vulnerability. The vulnerability is a simple example of an injection attack. The use of eval allows a user to run arbitrary code on the backend server. To prevent this code from ever being deployed to production, you can use static analysis within the deployment pipeline to detect the issue. Static analysis is generally very good at detecting injection vulnerabilities, which are the number one vulnerability according to OWASP rankings.

## 15:20

Introduction
In this Lab Step, you will integrate a static analysis tool into the build process in the continuous deployment pipeline. There are a wide variety of static analysis tools even if you only consider the JavaScript language. For illustration purposes, you will use the popular ESLint tool for linting JavaScript code. Linting is a kind of static analysis.

There are other ways to integrate ESLint into a development and deployment pipeline. Because it is not very computationally intensive to run in its default configuration, it is possible to have ESLint integrated directly into IDEs. You could also consider running ESLint as a pre-commit hook for Git, or for your version control system of choice, to prevent non-compliant code from ever being checked in. However, in general, more exhaustive static analysis tools may take a substantial amount of time to run or may require licenses per machine. In these situations, it may only be practical to run the analysis on a build machine in the deployment pipeline.

 

Instructions
1. In your AWS Cloud9 IDE, open app > package.json.

 

2. Install the ESLint package as a development-only dependency:

Copy code
npm install --save-dev eslint@^4.19.1
It takes 30 seconds for ESLint, and all of its dependencies, to be installed. You should notice the eslint package added as a dependency in the package.json devDepencies section:

alt

 

3. Enter the following to initialize the interactive command-line wizard for configuring ESLint:

Copy code
./node_modules/.bin/eslint --init
You can use your keyboard's arrow keys to select different options in the wizard, and press enter to choose an option.

 

4. Select the following options to configure ESLint:

? How would you like to configure ESLint? (Use arrow keys)
Use a popular style guide
? Which style guide do you want to follow? 
Standard
? What format do you want your config file to be in?
JavaScript
? The style guide "standard" requires eslint@>=8.0.1. You are currently using eslint@4.19.1.
Do you want to upgrade?
 Yes
alt

It takes around 10 seconds for the standard style guide dependencies to be installed. You should notice several more devDependencies packages starting with eslint- added in the package.json file. The standard ESLint style guide uses rule-checking plugins for many common JavaScript style conventions and best practices. If you are interested in the configuration of the standard style, you can view the eslint-config-standard/.eslintrc.json file. You can use the rule names to get an idea of what is being checked. The following rule is of particular importance for this Lab causing an error when an eval is encountered:

alt

 

5. Add the validate script to the scripts section of the package.json file:

Copy code
  "scripts": {
    "build-server": "babel server -d build",
    "build-client": "webpack",
    "build": "npm run build-server && npm run build-client",
    "start": "node build/index.js",
    "validate": "./node_modules/.bin/eslint server/ client/"
  },
alt

Be sure to add a comma to the end of the start script line. The validate script runs eslint on all of the JavaScript files in the server/ and client/ directories.

 

6. Save the package.json file by pressing ctrl+s on Windows, or command+s on Mac.

 

7. In the Cloud9 terminal, run the validate script by entering the following:

Copy code
npm run validate
The output identifies the eval line (13:3) as an error:

alt

There is also generic Node.js error message text following the specific error. ESLint uses the same eval can be harmful message that Cloud9 presented as a warning. That is because Cloud9 actually integrates ESLint into the IDE, but it configures the use of eval as a warning by default. To integrate ESLint into the build process, you must run the validate script as part of the CodeBuild build process.

ESLint also identifies the name variable not being const as an error because it doesn't recognize name is used within the eval. Because eval should not be used, this is a secondary issue that will be resolved when you fix the eval issue.

It is worth mentioning that ESLint can automatically fix many style convention issues by including the --fix option, but it cannot automatically fix the use of eval.

 

8. Open the application's buildspec.yml file.

 

9. Add the following line to run the validate script before the build script in the build: section:

Copy code
  - npm run validate
alt

White space is important in YAML, so make sure the validate command aligns with the build command.

 

10. Save the buildspec.yml file.

 

11. Enter the following command in the Cloud9 terminal tab to package the build artifacts to upload the new version to S3:

Copy code
bash package.sh
If you were using a CodePipeline based on Git instead of S3, you would commit and push the changes to the remote repository.

 

12. Upload the zip file to the CodePipeline S3 source bucket containing codeartifacts in its name:

Copy code
code_bucket=$(aws s3api list-buckets --query="Buckets[].Name" | grep codeartifacts | tr -d ' "')
aws s3 cp src.zip s3://$code_bucket
 

13. Click here to open the CodePipeline dashboard in a new browser tab.

 

14. Click on the pipeline in the table to open its graphical representation:

alt

 

15. Observe the pipeline that has been created:

alt

The S3 Source, CodeBuild Build, and CodeDeploy Deploy stages are shown. The Source stage succeeds within a minute, and within another minute the Build stage fails:

 alt

The CodeBuild specification uses caching to speed up the build process after the first build. You can refer to the cache section of the application's buildspec.yml file to see how the project dependencies are cached.

 

16. Click on View in CodeBuild in the BuildAction action to open a summary of the failure.

 

17. Observe the expected failure during the build stage due to the failing ESLint no-eval check in the Phase details tab:

alt

With ESLint integrated into the deployment pipeline, the vulnerable code would never have shipped to production. You can configure CodePipeline and CodeBuild notifications using Amazon SNS to notify you of such failures.

 

Summary
In this Lab Step, you used the popular ESLint Node.js static analysis tool to detect the injection vulnerability in the source code. By integrating static analysis into the continuous deployment pipeline, code that introduces similar vulnerabilities could never reach production deployment.




## 15:29

Introduction
You will fix the vulnerability identified by ESLint in this Lab Step. You will later verify the continuous deployment pipeline deploys to production.

 

Instructions
1. Return to the Cloud9 IDE and open the app > server > controllers > message.js file.

 

2. Change the eval statement on line 13 to the following:

Copy code
name = req.body
alt

By simply removing the eval function call, the injection vulnerability is removed. It is not always that easy to remove vulnerabilities.

Note: It is possible to tell ESLint to ignore errors if you are certain that is what you want. The following demonstrates how to disable the no-eval error for the line by adding a special ESLint comment:

alt

 

3. Save the file.

 

4. Enter the following command in the Cloud9 terminal tab to create a new source artifacts package to upload to S3:

Copy code
bash package.sh
 

5. Upload the zip file to the CodePipeline S3 source bucket containing codeartifacts in its name:

Copy code
code_bucket=$(aws s3api list-buckets --query="Buckets[].Name" | grep codeartifacts | tr -d ' "')
aws s3 cp src.zip s3://$code_bucket
 

Summary
In this Lab Step, you fixed the injection vulnerability by removing the use of eval.

## 15:31

Introduction
With the vulnerability fixed, you will verify that the new version is able to deploy to production. You will also verify that you can no longer inject code using the Get Message button in the frontend.

 

Instructions
1. Return to the CodePipeline browser tab, and watch the new version flow through the pipeline succeeding at each stage:

alt

This confirms the ESLint error is fixed, and the pipeline allows the version to be deployed.

 

2. Return to the application's frontend browser tab and refresh the page:

alt

 

3. Try entering "; while(1); " for the Name again and pressing enter to get a message.

 

4. Observe that a response is returned immediately and malicious users are no longer able to freeze the production deployment server:

alt

 

Summary
In this Lab Step, you verified the continuous deployment pipeline allowed the version to be deployed, implying the ESLint checks all passed. You also confirmed that the injection attack that previously succeeded is no longer able to overload the production server.



## 15:50

Introduction
Gauntlt is a security testing framework that uses a command-line interface (CLI) for running security tests, or attacks. To use Gauntlt, you define attack files that the Gauntlt CLI executes. Gauntlt will follow attack instructions in attack files and notify you of the attack results. By using attack files, you can start to implement a practice of security as code within DevOps. Gauntlt makes it easy to integrate security testing into a continuous integration pipeline. That way security is considered with every change of the code.

Gauntlt is written in the Ruby programming language and is available via Ruby's RubyGems package manager. However, there are other ways to obtain Gauntlt. You will explore an alternative method for obtaining Gauntlt in a later Lab Step.

 

Instructions
1. In the bash terminal tab in the lower panel of Cloud9, enter the following to install the Gauntlt gem (Ruby package):

Copy code
gem install gauntlt --version 1.0.13
alt

gem is the command used to interact with the RubyGems package manager. The Cloud9 EC2 instance runs Amazon Linux which includes Ruby and the RubyGems package manager. The install command also installs Gauntlt's dependencies. The last lines of output list all of the packages that are installed. gherkin and cucumber are a language and interpreter, respectively, for Gauntlt attack files. You will learn more about them later.

 

2. Get the Gauntlt CLI usage information by entering:

Copy code
gauntlt --help
alt

The gauntlt command searches for attack files to run. It will recursively search the current directory if no path is specified. Tags can be used to select a subset of available attacks. Currently, there are no attack files in your working directory.

 

3. Create a file called first.attack:

Copy code
touch first.attack
 

4. List all the files in the current directory:

Copy code
ls -a
alt

 

5. Open the file in the upper Cloud9 panel by clicking first.attack and selecting Open from the pop-up menu:

alt

This is one example of how tightly the terminal integrated into Cloud9.

 

6. In the first.attack editor tab, paste the following attack definition:

Copy code
# first.attack
Feature: Simple first attack
  Scenario:
    When I launch a "generic" attack with:
      """
      ls -a
      """
    Then the output should contain:
      """
      .
      """
The text is an example of the Gherkin language. Gherkin is specifically designed for describing and documenting automated tests. Gherkin code is similar to how you might express running a test in English (or in other spoken languages that Gherkin is localized for). You can use Gherkin syntax highlighting to help understand the file.

 

7. Select Gherkin syntax highlighting from the View > Syntax menu:

alt

You need to manually select the syntax highlighting because .attack isn't a standard Gherkin file extension.

 

8. Read the syntax-highlighted attack file:

alt

A full treatment of the Gherkin language is outside of the scope of this Lab. The following points explain what you need to know to understand the file:

Gherkin is whitespace-sensitive and uses indentation to define structure
Any text beginning with # and continuing to the end of a line is a comment. For example, line 1 is a comment and does not play a part in defining the attack.
Feature is a keyword that declares the container for a group of tests, or attacks in Gauntlt parlance. The text after Feature: describes the scope of the tests.
Scenario declares a test. A Feature consists of a list of Scenarios. You can include text to describe the scenario. This is particularly important for when you have more than one scenario in an attack file.
When and Then declare steps in a Scenario. Given, And, and But are also keywords that declare a step.
I launch a "generic" attack with:, and the output should contain: are steps that match corresponding step definitions. Step definitions are blocks of Ruby code that implement the functionality of a step. Gauntlt includes several step definitions in addition to the step definitions included in Cucumber, the interpreter for Gherkin.
The generic attack step definition executes the code between the """ docstring quotation marks.
The output step definition uses a regular expression to match the contents included within the """ docstring quotation marks. There are also variations, such as "the output should contain exactly", which uses different regular expressions.
The scenario is verifying that . (the current directory) is included in the output of ls -a. This is always true. Attack files can include multiple scenarios. Although Gauntlt focuses on security tests, it is a generic framework that allows attacks that are not assessing security.

 

9. Press ctrl+s on Windows, or cmd+s on Mac to save the first.attack file.

 

10. Press alt+s on Windows, or option+s on Mac to switch your cursor back to the terminal.

 

11. List the step definitions included in Gauntlt by default:

Copy code
gauntlt -s
Among the output, you can see the step definition that implements the generic attack step used in the first.attack file:

alt

The "the output should contain" step is not listed because it is not a Gauntlt-specific step. Entering gauntlt -a lists all step definitions including those that are part of Cucumber.

 

12. Execute the attack by entering:

Copy code
gauntlt
Gauntlt recursively searches the current directory for any files that end with .attack. The output should resemble the following:

alt

The end of the output notifies you that the scenario passed, and both steps in the attack file also passed.

 

13. Press alt/option+s to switch back to the editor, and change the second step to search for ... instead of .:

alt

There is no such file, so the attack scenario should fail.

 

14. Press ctrl/cmd+s to save the file, then alt/option+s to switch back to the terminal.

 

15. Press the up-arrow followed by enter to re-run the attack:

alt

The red color is used to indicate failures. The summary at the end as well as the annotated step text is colored. The annotated step shows a Diff of the expected output and the actual output that caused the step to fail. The Failing Scenarios: section lists the scenarios that failed and gives their corresponding file, line number, and scenario name (./first.attack:3 # Scenario:).

 

Summary
In this Lab Step, you executed your first attack in Gauntlt. You installed Gauntlt using the RubyGems package manager. You also learned about the structure of Gauntlt attack files written in Gherkin. An attack file contains a feature that consists of a list of scenarios. Scenarios correspond to a security test or an attack. Each attack is made of several steps. Each step must have a corresponding step definition that tells the interpreter how to perform the step.

## 15:50

Introduction
In the previous Lab Step, you executed an attack that included a step written as When I launch a "generic" attack with. The word generic in the step refers to an attack adapter. In Gauntlt, attack adapters implement the step definitions. Gauntlt includes several attack adapters. The generic attack adapter step definition allows you to run any terminal command. Other attack adapters are built around existing security testing tools. Using an attack adapter for a specific security tool is more convenient than trying to use the generic attack adapter and generic output parsing steps. Although the attack adapters are installed with Gauntlt, the status of the security tools are independent of it. You must ensure the tool is installed before Gauntlt can run attacks using the tool's corresponding adapter.

 

Instructions
1. Use the list command to show the available Gaunlt attack adapters:

Copy code
gauntlt --list
alt

To gain some insight into the attack adapters, the following bullets summarize the use cases for each:

arachni: Web application security scanner
curl: A tool for transferring data, but useful for testing if something exists
dirb: A web content scanner that can be used to discover hidden pages, such as administrator log in pages
garmr: Inspects website responses for basic security requirements based on Mozilla's web application security coding guidelines
heartbleed: Tests for the heartbleed vulnerability
nmap: Network mapper for performing port scans for penetration testing
sqlmap: Detects SQL injection flaws for a variety of database management systems
sslyze: Analyzes SSL configuration and can identify weak cipher suites and other vulnerabilities
Note that AWS provides an acceptable use policy that restricts the kinds of security tests that you can perform. In general, you are allowed to perform vulnerability and penetration tests of your own systems, but you must request authorization first.

 

2. Create a directory for the attack you will create, and change into it:

Copy code
mkdir xss
cd xss
XSS is an abbreviation for a cross-site scripting attack. XSS attacks allow attackers to inject malicious code into an otherwise trusted website. You will use Arachni to test for XSS vulnerabilities.

 

3. Create an attack file by right-clicking the xss folder in the Environment panel and selecting New File:

alt

 

4. Enter xss.attack for the filename:

alt

 

5. Double-click the xss.attack file to open it.

This time, Cloud9 knows to use Gherkin syntax highlighting for the attack file.

 

6. Paste the following code into the file:

Copy code
@slow
Feature: Cross-site scripting (xss) using arachni against a URL
  Scenario: Look for xss vulnerabilities and verify no issues are found
    Given the following profile:
      | name | value                 |
      | url  | https://www.owasp.org |
    When I launch an "arachni" attack with:
      """
      arachni --checks=xss --scope-page-limit=1 <url>
      """
    Then the output should contain:
      """
      0 issues were detected.
      """
This attack file introduces a few new Gherkin concepts:

@ indicates a tag. Tags can be used to label and run subsets of attacks. The @slow and @reallyslow tags configure Gauntlt to use a 30-second or 10-minute timeouts, respectively, instead of the default three seconds for a scenario.
Given declares preconditions that must be satisfied before performing an attack.
The profile in the code is a Gherkin table where columns are separated by |.
Table values can be used in following steps by specifying a row name between angle brackets, such as <url>
Tables make it easy to adapt an attack file to different environments
The arachni command checks for XSS vulnerabilities and limits the scope to a single page. The URL is retrieved from the profile table and is https://www.owasp.org (Open Web Application Security Project website).

 

7. Switch to the terminal with alt/option+s, and run the attack:

Copy code
gauntlt 
The scenario fails with output similar to the following:

alt

The red annotated arachni step provides the reason for the failure: No such file or directory - arachni. Recall that attack adapters depend on the underlying security tool, which is not installed by Gauntlt.

 

 

8. Replace the xss.attack file contents with the following:

Copy code
@slow
Feature: Cross-site scripting (xss) using arachni against a URL
  Scenario: Look for xss vulnerabilities and verify no issues are found
    Given "arachni" is installed
      And the following profile:
        | name | value                 |
        | url  | https://www.owasp.org |
    When I launch an "arachni" attack with:
      """
      arachni --checks=xss --scope-page-limit=1 <url>
      """
    Then the output should contain:
      """
      0 issues were detected.
      """
There is only a small change in this version of the attack file. The Given line now includes a precondition that ensures "arachni" is installed. The profile table is also included as before by joining the preconditions together with the And keyword.

 

9. Run the attack again and compare the output with the previous run to see which error message is clearer.

 

10. Install Arachni by issuing the following commands:

Copy code
# Download the Arachni release archive
wget https://github.com/Arachni/arachni/releases/download/v1.5.1/arachni-1.5.1-0.5.12-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
# Extract the release archive to your home directory
tar -zxf arachni-1.5.1-0.5.12-linux-x86_64.tar.gz -C ~
# Remove the release archive
rm arachni-1.5.1-0.5.12-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
# Add Arachni to your PATH
PATH=$PATH:~/arachni-1.5.1-0.5.12/bin
The final line includes Arachni in your environment's PATH variable so Arachni can be executed from any directory.

 

11. Run the attack again:

Copy code
gauntlt
Read through the output as it appears:

alt

The attack takes around six (6) seconds to complete and all steps pass now that Arachni is installed. 

 

Summary
In this Lab Step, you learned about attack adapters in Gauntlt. You wrote an attack file that uses the Arachni attack adapter. You saw what happens when you run an attack and an underlying attack adapter is not installed. You can include a precondition in your attack file to check that an attack adapter tool is installed to make debugging issues easier. You also learned about tags and tables in Gherkin.

## 15:54

Introduction
In a DevOps environment, you are most likely to be security testing your own applications. In this Lab Step, you will run an application that has intentionally been left vulnerable to several attacks. The application is called RailsGoat. A couple of screenshots of the RailsGoat web application are shown below:

alt

alt

RailsGoat is developed by the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) and is made to educate developers and security professionals. The vulnerabilities in RailsGoat follow the top 10 application vulnerabilities identified by OWASP. If you are interested, you are encouraged to read more about the vulnerabilities and the security tools that Gaunlt supports to detect them after completing the Lab. This Lab focuses on using Gauntlt and will not go into the details of vulnerabilities or Gauntlt's underlying security tools.

You will run RailsGoat in a Docker container and also use the official Gauntlt Docker image to run Gauntlt inside of a container. The Gauntlt image comes with security tools installed. It is a convenient way to use Gauntlt and not have to worry about installing security tools separately.

 

Instructions
1. Delete the Cloud9 AWS Lambda Docker images to free up some disk space:

Copy code
docker rmi $(docker images --format '{{.Repository}}:{{.Tag}}' | grep lambda)
Cloud9 integrates tightly with AWS Lambda and includes Lambda images for several languages. However, the Lambda Docker images bring the 8GiB file system close to capacity and do not leave enough space for the Gauntlt Docker image. You can safely delete the images for the sake of this Lab.

 

2. In the Cloud9 terminal tab, use Docker to run the RailsGoat application:

Copy code
docker network create attack
docker run --name railsgoat --network attack -d owasp/railsgoat:rails_5 sh -c \
  "rails db:setup && rails server -b 0.0.0.0"
It takes a minute for the Docker images to be pulled down and for the application server to start running. The server runs on TCP port 3000 in the container. The container runs in the user-defined network named attack. The railsgoat port is accessible to any container in the attack network. Docker also provides name resolution for mapping the container name railsgoat to an IP address inside the attack network.

 

3. Check the container logs to verify the application server has started:

Copy code
docker logs railsgoat
alt

The server is up and running when you see WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=_ port=3000 on the last line of the logs. Reissue the command if you do not see the line in the log output. Cloud9 will pop up a help message that is aimed at debugging Ruby applications. You can close the message since it does not apply to you.

 

4. Create a directory for RailsGoat attacks, and change into it:

Copy code
mkdir ~/environment/railsgoat
cd ~/environment/railsgoat
 

5. Create a file named app.attack in the railsgoat folder, and open it in an editor tab:

alt

 

6. Paste in the following attack file contents:

Copy code
Feature: Attack suite targeting railsgoat application
  Background: Common attack values
    Given "arachni" is installed
      And "curl" is installed
      And the following profile:
        | name | value                  |
        | url  | http://railsgoat:3000 |
  @slow
  Scenario: Look for xss vulnerabilities and verify no issues are found
    When I launch an "arachni" attack with:
      """
      arachni --checks=xss --scope-page-limit=1 <url>
      """
    Then the output should contain:
      """
      0 issues were detected.
      """
  Scenario Outline: Verify server responds correctly to various HTTP methods
    When I launch a "curl" attack with:
      """
      curl -i -X <method> <url>
      """
    Then the output should contain "<response>"
    Examples:
      | method | response                  |
      | TRACK  | 500 Internal Server Error |
      | GET    | 200 OK                    |
      | PATCH  | 500 Internal Server Error |
The attack file includes two attacks, one using the Arachni attack adapter and another using the curl adapter. The attack file demonstrates a few more features for Gherkin:

Background steps are executed before each scenario and are a good place for common preconditions. The table declares the attack target url as http://railsgoat:3000. This URL is only valid from inside the Docker attack network.
Tags can decorate scenarios as well as features. The @slow tag extends the timeout of the arachni attack scenario only.
A scenario can be executed multiple times using rows from an Examples table. This is illustrated in the second Scenario. The scenario uses the Scenario Outline keywords to indicate that it gets values from rows in the following Examples table.
Even with the slow tag, the Arachni attack does not have enough time to completely scan the application. For the sake of time, the 30-second slow timeout is used to limit how long Arachni runs. It will not find any XSS vulnerabilities within that time period. The curl attack scenarios check that the TRACK and PATCH HTTP verbs are not supported, while the GET verb is. The curl attack is intentionally made to fail for demonstration purposes. To determine what regular expressions to match in the output, you can run the commands from the command-line. You do not have to run the commands individually after you codify the attacks. Gauntlt automates everything from that point.

 

7. From the terminal tab, run the RailsGoat attacks using a Gauntlt container with security tools pre-installed:

Copy code
docker run --rm -v `pwd`:/opt/app --network attack --tty gauntlt/gauntlt
It takes a minute for the Docker image layers to be pulled. The command options serve the following purposes:

--rm: Deletes the container once it exits, which is as soon as Gauntlt finishes running
-v: Mounts the current directory into the containers working directory so the attack file can be discovered by Gauntlt
--network: Attaches the Gauntlt container to the attack network so Gauntlt can access the RailsGoat application on the network
--tty: Allocate a pseudo-TTY to enable output text coloring
Once the attacks finish, output similar to the following is shown:

alt

Although the Arachni attack times out, it does not count as a failure because it detects no issues within the time it has to run. The only attack that fails is the curl attack verifying that the PATCH method is not supported. The RailsGoat server does support the PATCH verb so it fails. Notice that you can search the output for the word failed to determine if any attacks failed. Gauntlt also returns a non-zero exit code if any attacks fail. This makes it easy to automate in a pipeline.

 

Summary
In this Lab Step, you used a Gauntlt Docker container to scan an application running on the local environment. Using a container for Gauntlt is convenient because it is a portable solution and comes with security tools pre-installed. You also saw how to include multiple attacks in one attack file, how to share preconditions using a Background section, and how to reuse an attack scenario by including an Examples table.
