# Notes for 2024-02-20

## 11:09

`gitlab-ci` Artifacts vs. Cache.
[GitLab CI - Cache and Artifacts explained](https://dev.to/drakulavich/gitlab-ci-cache-and-artifacts-explained-by-example-2opi)

*Artifacts*:
	- Artifacts are deleted after 30 days by default.
	- You can define a custom expiration time.
		*Possible Inputs:*
		- '42'
		- 42 seconds
		- 3 mins 4 sec
		- 2hrs 20 min
		- 2h20min
		- 6 mos 1 day
		- 47 yrs 6 mos and 4d
		- 3 weeks and 2 days
		- never

	```yaml
	
	job:
		artifacts:
			expire_in: 1 week

	```

	*Additional details:*
	- The expiration time period begins when the artifact is uploaded and
		stored on Gitlab. If the expiry time is not defined, it defaults to
		the instance wide setting.
	- To override the expiration date and protect artifacts from being
		automatically deleted:
		- Select Keep on the job page
		- In GitLab 13.3 and later, set the value of `expire_in` to `never`
		- If the expiry time is too short, jobs in later stages of long
			pipeline might try to fetch expired artifacts from earlier jobs.
			If the artifacts are expired, jobs that try to fetch them fail
			with a `could not retrieve the needed artifacts error` Set the
			expiry time to be longer, or use `dependencies` in later jobs to
			ensure they don't try to fetch expired artifacts.

## 11:46

*Removing Artifacts after Pipeline is run*:

[Issue GitLab - Remove artifacts after Pipeline execution](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-runner/-/issues/2133)

Maybe the Cache property is the better solution:
> The cache is provided on a best-effort basis, so don't expect that the cache will be always present. For implementation details, please check GitLab Runner.

[Issue GitLab - Expire artifacts after final stage of pipeline](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/issues/19505)
The cron job to delete artifacts runs every hour, at minimum.
> Yeah, this sounds like a good idea, but since we already support expiring in "1 hour", and the cron job only runs once an hour, it's a small optimization to have them expire any sooner so this makes the request a pretty low priority for us.

[GitLab Threat - Remove all artifacts - no expire options](https://forum.gitlab.com/t/remove-all-artifact-no-expire-options/9274/10)

The above `GitLab Threat` lead me to this script below.
[Bash Script to delete Artifacts](https://gist.github.com/carceneaux/b75d483e3e0cb798ae60c424300d5a0b)


## 12:15

*Private ECR Repository Policy Example*:
[Private repository policy example](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/repository-policy-examples.html)

The following repository policy allows one or more users to push and pull images to and from a repository.

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "AllowPushPull",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": [
                    "arn:aws:iam::account-id:user/push-pull-user-1",
                    "arn:aws:iam::account-id:user/push-pull-user-2"
                ]
            },
            "Action": [
                "ecr:BatchGetImage",
                "ecr:BatchCheckLayerAvailability",
                "ecr:CompleteLayerUpload",
                "ecr:GetDownloadUrlForLayer",
                "ecr:InitiateLayerUpload",
                "ecr:PutImage",
                "ecr:UploadLayerPart"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
``` 

*Example: Restricting access to specific IP addresses:*

The following example denies permissions to any user to perform any Amazon ECR operations when applied to a repository from a specific range of addresses.

The condition in this statement identifies the 54.240.143.* range of allowed Internet Protocol version 4 (`IPv4`) IP addresses.

The Condition block uses the `NotIpAddress` conditions and the `aws:SourceIp condition key`, which is an AWS-wide condition key. 
For more information about these condition keys, see AWS Global Condition Context Keys. 
The `aws:sourceIp` `IPv4` values use the standard `CIDR` notation. 
For more information, see IP Address Condition Operators in the `IAM` User Guide.

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Id": "ECRPolicyId1",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "IPAllow",
            "Effect": "Deny",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "ecr:*",
            "Condition": {
                "NotIpAddress": {
                    "aws:SourceIp": "54.240.143.0/24"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
