# Notes for 2023-06-22

## 11:40

*Gitlab Pipelines:*
In gitlab pipelines rules are evaluated when the pipeline is
created, and evaluated in order until the first match. When a match
is found, the job is either included or excluded from the pipeline,
depending on the configuration.

## 12:19

Since the new version of Gitlab-Pipeline, only/except are not longer
supported, you have to use an if rule instead.
  - check this link for ref.
  https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67010580/gitlab-ci-yml-jobsbuild-production-config-key-may-not-be-used-with-rules-onl


## 12:56

As of 2021 this Stack Overlflow Post doesn't have a proper solution
for this problem. Check this link:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42796018/how-to-run-a-gitlab-ci-yml-job-only-on-a-tagged-branch

## 13:02

In gitlab-pipelines the if rule cannot be used to check for tags on
commits. As mentioned in this closed issue.
https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/issues/63508

## 13:18

The problem with that is that if the pipeline is triggered by a tag,
CI_COMMIT_BRANCH is not defined, and viceversa with a commit trigger
and CI_COMMIT_TAG.
From an Answer of this link:
 -
 https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42796018/how-to-run-a-gitlab-ci-yml-job-only-on-a-tagged-branch

## 14:42

```yaml
	# - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == 'master' && $CI_COMMIT_TAG =~ /^v(?:\d+.){2}(?:\d+)$/
	# - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == 'main' && $AWS_TEST_VERSION =~ /^v(?:\d+.){2}(?:\d+)$/
```

## 14:47

The pipeline is now not working or not triggering. Possible
scenarios. 
1. The Requirements are met.
  The it should work, when pushing to gitlab-pipeline. So change the
  Branch section for push.
2. It is not Something is missing in the if statement and it is
   therefore prevented from running.
3. That version is now totally wrong I have to start all over.

What is the difference between several if statements in rule or using
on chained one.

As of what I read in the docs. They are run after one another if the
first failed then the second, etc. When all three if statements
should be run, then it should be more logical to run them in a
chained (single) if: rule. Try to verify your thought.
