# Notes for 2023-05-16

## 10:57

Heute dann noch die Notes in das me Repo mit aufgenommen und mittels
git-crypt verschlüsselt.

## 11:50

*Docker Basic Usage > Vagrant:*
The Docker Provider behaves just like any other provider. The Docker
provider does not require a `config.vm.box` setting. Since the base
image for a Docker container is pulled from the Docker Index or built
from a Dockerfile, the box does not add much value, and is
optional for this provider. 

*Docker Images:*
The first method that Vagrant can use to source a Docker container is
via an image. This image can be from any Docker registry.

``` Vagrantfile
  Vagrant.configure("2") do |config|
    config.vm.provider "docker" do |d|
      d.image = "foo/bar"
    end
  end
``` 
When `vagrant up --provider=docker` is run, this will bring up the image
`foo/bar`.

This is useful for extra components of your application that it might
depend on: 
  - databases
  - queues, etc.
Typically, the primary application you are working on is built with
a Dockerfile, or via a container with ssh.

*Dockerfiles:*
Vagrant can also automatically build and run images based on a local
Dockerfile. This is useful for iterating on an application locally that
is built into an image later. 

## 13:24

*Vagrant - Provisioning:*
Allows you to:
  - automatically install software,
  - alter configuration, 
and more on the machine as part of the `vagrant up` process.

*Vagrant - When Provisioning Happens:*
Provisioning happens at certain points during the lifetime of your
Vagrant environment:
  - On first `vagrant up`
  - On `vagrant provision`
  - When `vagrant reload --provision` is called. The `--provision`
    flag must be present to force provisioning.
You can also bring up your environment and explicitly not run
provisioners by specifying `--no-provisioning`. 

## 13:30

*Vagrant - Vagrantfile:*

Lookup Path:
When you run any `vagrant` command, Vagrant climbs up the directory
tree looking for the first Vagrantfile it can find, starting first in
the current directory.

Load Order and Merging:
An important concept to understand is how Vagrant loads
Vagrantfiles. Vagrant actually loads a series of Vagrantfiles,
merging the settings as it goes. This allows Vagrantfiles of varying
level of specificity to override prior settings. Vagrantfiles are
loaded in the order shown below:

  - 1) Vagrantfile packaged with the `box` that is to be used for a
    given machine.
  - 2) Vagrantfile in your Vagrant home directory (defaults to
    `~/.vagrant.d`). This lets you specify some defaults for your
    system user.
  - 3) Vagrantfile from the project directory. This is the
    Vagrantfile that you will be modifying most of the time.
  - 4) Multi-machine overrides if any.
  - 5) Provider-specific overrides, if any.

At each level, settings set will be merged with previous values. What
this exactly means depends on the setting. (e.g. newer overrides
older, for most settings). For networks that means that networks are
actually appended to each other.
Within each Vagrantfile, you may specify multiple
`Vagrant.configure` blocks. 

## 13:42

*Vagrant - Shell Provisioner:*
The Vagrant Shell provisioner allows you to upload and execute a
script withing the guest machine.
Shell provisioning is ideal for new Vagrant users. Alternative
configuration management systems are:
  - Chef, or
  - Puppet

For POSIX-like machines, the shell provisioner executes scripts with
SSH. For Windows guest machines that are configured to use `WinRM`,
the shell provisioner executes `PowerShell` and Batch scripts over
`WinRM`.

  - For options browse:
    https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant/docs/provisioning/shell



## 15:57

Orgmode für Neovim, Neovide und Lunarvim installiert. 
