# Notes for 2023-08-31

## 13:25

### Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform

Combining the universal automation language with cloud services and
certified content for automating, deploying and operating applications,
infrastructure and services securely at enterprise scale.

*Ansible Automation*
Providing scalable, secure implementation for describing, building and
managing the deployment of enterprise IT applications across diverse
HYBRID CLOUD architectures.
  - Ansible Automation controller

*Cloud Services*
Cloud services that facilitate team COLLABORATION and provide
operational analytics for automating heterogeneous, hybrid environments.
  - Service Catalog
  - Automation hub (like an app store for content)
  - Automation Analytics -> Red Hat Insights

*Certified Content*
Extends native platform capabilities with certified, supported CONTENT
designed to expand the automation domain and accelerate adoption for
enterprise customers.
  - content is stored in collection
    - can contain roles, modules

  *USERS*
  - Content creators
  - Operators
  - Domain experts
  - Users
  *Fueled by an open source community*

*On-premises*
  - Automation controller
    
*Ansible Cloud Services*
  - Automation hub
    - hosted on premises, a content repository for your content
  - Automation services catalog
    - like a light weight ism tool
  - Insights for Ansible Automation Platform
    - Measure success about automation

*Ansible content domains*
  - Infrastructure
    - Linux
    - Windows
  - Cloud
    - Public Cloud 
    - Private Cloud
    - Container Native or Cloud Native
  - Network
    - automating network switches and routers
  - Security
    - Firewalls
    - integration with a multitude of different tools
      - like q-radar
      - sniffing packets

*Ansible Core*


## 13:49

### What is Ansible Core?

  - *cli*: this includes ansible, ansible-playbook, ansible-doc and
    numerous other command line utilities for diving and interacting
    with automation
  - *language*: Ansible uses YAML to create a very succinct but powerful
    set of rules for developing Ansible Playbooks.
  - *framework*: this architecture allows pluggability by using
    collections to be installed and operated from Automation Hub and
    Ansible Galaxy.
  - *functions*: this includes conditionals, blocks, includes, loops and
    other Ansible imperatives.

## 13:55

### What makes up a Ansible playbook?

  - Plays
    *What are they?*
    Top level specification for a group of tasks. Will tell that play
    which hosts it will execute on and control behavior such as fact
    gathering or privilege level.
    *Building blocks for playbooks*
    Multiple plays can exist withing an Ansible playbook that execute on
    different hosts.
    *Playbook Basics*

    The following is called a play:
    ```yaml
    ---
    - name: install and start apche
      hosts: web
      become: yes

      tasks: 
      - name: httpd package is present
        yum:
          name: httpd
          state: latest

      - name: latest index.html file is present
        template:
          src: files/index.html
          dest: /var/www/html/

      - name: httpd is started
        service:
          name: httpd
          state: started
    ```
    A playbook run
    Where it all starts
      - A playbook is interpreted and run against one or multiple hosts,
        task by task. The order of the tasks defines the execution.
      - In each task, the module does the actual work.

  - Modules
    *What are they?*
    Parameterized components with internal logic, representing a single
    step to be done. The modules "do" things in Ansible.
    *Language*
    Usually Python, or Powershell for Windows setups. But can be of any
    language.

  - Plugins
    *What are they?*
    Plugins are pieces of code that augment Ansible's core
    functionality. Ansible uses a plugin architecture to enable a rich,
    flexible, and expandable feature set.

  - Inventory
    *What are they?*
    List of systems in your infrastructure that automation is executed
    against.
    *The Basics*
    An example of static Ansible inventory including systems with IP
    addresses as well as fully qualified domain name (FQDN)

    ```
    [myservers]
    10.42.0.2
    10.42.0.6
    10.42.0.7
    10.42.0.8
    10.42.0.100
    host.example.com
    ```
    
    ```
    [app1srv]
    appserver01 ansible_host=10.42.0.2
    appserver02 ansible_host=10.42.0.3

    [web]
    webserver01

    [web:vars]
    apache_listen_port=8080
    apache_root_path=/var/www/mywebdocs/

    [all:vars]
    ansible_user=ansible
    ansible_ssh_private_key_file=/home/ansible/.ssh/id_rsa
    ```

    ```
    [nashville]
    bnaapp01
    bnaapp02

    [atlanta]
    atlapp03
    atlapp04

    [south:children]
    atlanta
    nashville
    hsvapp05
    ```

  - Roles
    *What are they?*
    Group your tasks and variables of your automation in a reusable
    structure. Write roles once, and share them with others who have
    similar challenges in front of them.
    - Reusable playbooks where we can write it in a reusable structure
      - e.g. when you have 3 or 4 tasks that are written in the same
        way it is a good candidate to become a role.

  - Collections
    Simplified and consistent content delivery

    *What are they?*
    Collections are a data structure containing automation content:
      - Modules
      - Playbooks
      - Roles
      - Plugins
      - Docs
      - Tests

  - Configuration File
    The ansible.cfg file:

      - Basic configuration for Ansible
      - Can be in multiple locations, with different precedence

  - Variables
    ```yaml
    ---
    - name: variable playbook test
      hosts: localhost

      vars:
        var_one: awesome
        var_two: ansible is
        var_three: "{{ var_two }} {{ var_one }}"

      tasks:
        - name: print out the var_three
          debug:
            msg: "{{ var_three }}"
    ```
   
  - Facts

    - Just like variables, really...
    - ...but: coming from the host itself!
    - Check them out with the setup module `ansible all -m setup`

  - Constructs

    *Conditionals via vars*
    Example of using a variable labeled my_mood and using it as a
    conditional on particular task.

    ```yaml
    ---
    vars:
      my_mood: happy

    tasks:
    - name: task, based on my_mood var
      debug:
        msg: "Yay! I am {{ my_mood }}!"
      when: my_mood == "happy"
    ``` 

    ```yaml
    ---
    - name: variable playbook test
      hosts: localhost

      tasks:
      - name: Install apache
        apt:
          name: apache2
          state: latest
        when: ansible_distribution == 'Debian' or
              ansible_distribution == 'Ubuntu'

      - name: Install httpd
        yum:
          name: httpd
          state: latest
        when: ansible_distribution == 'RedHat'
    ``` 

    ```yaml
    ---
    - name: varibale playbook test
      hosts: localhost

      tasks:
      - name: Ensure httpd package is present
        yum:
          name: httpd
          state: latest
        register: http_results

      - name: Restart httpd
        service:
          name: httpd
          state: restart
        when: httpd_results.changed
    ```

    ```yaml
    ---
    - name: varibale playbook test
      hosts: localhost

      tasks:
      - name: Ensure httpd package is present
        yum:
          name: httpd
          state: latest
        notify: restart_httpd

      handlers:
      - name: restart_httpd
        service:
          name: httpd
          state: restart
    ```
    If either task notifies a changed result, the handler will be
    notified ONCE. More efficient then version with register.
    If neither task notifies a changed result, the handler DOES NOT RUN.

    ```yaml
    ---
    - name: Ensure users
      hosts: node1
      become: yes

      tasks: 
      - name: Ensure user is present
        user: 
          name: "{{ item }}"
          state: present
        loop:
          - dev_user
          - qa_user
          - prod_user

    ``` 
    It is a good practice to always check the module documentation on to
    use lists or loops because efficiency could depend on it.
